  
 
 

TECHNICAL DATA SHEET 
 
TDS-391 
Edition:  February 26, 2007 
Original Date:  July 27, 2006 
 
 
Schercemol™
*
 LL Ester 
 
 
 
INCI Adopted Name:
 Lauryl Lactate 
Technical Name:
 Dodecyl 2-Hydroxypropanoate 
CAS Number: 6283-92-7 
EINECS Number: 228-504-8 
  
STRUCTURE:
 H 
3 
C 
OHO
O
CH
3
 
 
PROPERTIES: 
 
Appearance @ 25°C Clear Liquid 
Color, Gardner 2.0 max. 
Odor Characteristic 
Acid Value, mg KOH/gram 3.0 max. 
Saponification Value, mg KOH/gram 205 - 225 
Specific Gravity @ 25°C 0.910 - 0.922 
Refractive Index @ 25°C 1.441 - 1.446 
 
 
SUGGESTED APPLICATIONS: 
 
Schercemol™ LL ester yields a light, velvety emolliency to numerous cosmetic formulations such as hand lotions, sunscreens and lipsticks.  It is based on alpha-hydroxy acid and is therefore recommended in skin renewal and cell regeneration applications.  
 
Because of its free hydroxyl group, Schercemol™ LL ester is dispersible in water, permitting its use in 

bath oil preparations. 
 
Schercemol™ LL ester is also soluble in alcohol and, therefore, of value in colognes and aftershaves. 

Schercemol™ LL ester is known to reduce the tackiness in roll-on antiperspirants. 
 
 
Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Lubrizol Corporation  * Trademark owned by The Lubrizol Corporation 
© Copyright 2007 / The Lubrizol Corporation  
The information contained herein is believed to be reliable, but no representations, guarantees or warranties of any kind are made as to its accuracy, suitability for particular applications or the results to be obtained.  The information often is based on laboratory work with small-scale equipment and does not necessarily indicate end product performance or reproducibility.  Formulations presented may not have been tested for stability and should be used only as a suggested starting point.  Because of the variations in 
methods, conditions and equipment used commercially in processing these materials, no warranties or guarantees are made as to the suitability of the products for the applications disclosed.  Full-scale 
testing and end product performance are the responsibility of the user. Lubrizol Advanced Materials, 
Inc. shall not be liable for and the customer assumes all risk and liability for any use or handling of any material beyond Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc.’s 
direct control.  The SELLER MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Nothing contained herein is to be considered as permission, recommendation, nor 
as an inducement to practice any patented invention without permission of the patent owner.  
Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc. / 9911 Brecksville Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44141-3247 / TEL: 800.379.5389 or 216.447.5000
For further information, please visit www.personalcare.noveon.com
The information contained herein is believed to be reliable, but no representations, guarantees or warranties of any kind are made as to its accuracy, suitability for particular applications or the results to be obtained.  The information often is based on laboratory work with small-scale equipment and does not necessarily indicate end product performance or reproducibility.  Formulations presented may not have been tested for stability and should be used only as a suggested starting point.  Because of the variations in 
methods, conditions and equipment used commercially in processing these materials, no warranties or 
guarantees are made as to the suitability of the products for the applications disclosed.  Full-scale 
testing and end product performance are the responsibility of the user. Lubrizol Advanced Materials, 
Inc. shall not be liable for and the customer assumes all risk and liability for any use or handling of any material beyond Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc.’s 
direct control.  The SELLER MAKES NO 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Nothing contained herein is to be considered as permission, recommendation, nor 
as an inducement to practice any patented invention without permission of the patent owner.  
Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc. / 9911 Brecksville Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44141-3247 / TEL: 800.379.5389 or 216.447.5000
For further information, please visit www.personalcare.noveon.com